20/12/19
Linux(Bash)
Reading Files
echo "Entre a file name to read:"
read FILE
while read -r SUPERHERO; do
echo "Superhero Name: $SUPERHERO"
done < "$FILE"
(read a file, then output its content with prefixed text, read –r read from a file)

File Descriptors and Handles
echo "Entre a filename to read:"
read FILE
exec 5<>$FILE
while read -r SUPERHERO; do
        echo "Superhero name: $SUPERHER"
done <&5
echo "THis file Read On: `date`" >&5
exec 5>&-
(use file descriptor to represents a file, has to be equal or greater to 3, < read, > write, in this case 5 represents the file, in the end, exec 5>&- to close the file)

IFS and Delimiting
echo "Enter filename to parse: "
read FILE
echo "Enter the Delimiter: "
read DELIM
IFS="$DELIM"
while read -r CPU MEMORY DISK; do
  echo "CPU: $CPU"
echo "Memory: $MEMORY"
  echo "Disk: $DISK"
done <"\$FILE"
(IFS represents delimiter, by default its “ “ space)

Traps and Signals
trap 'echo " - Please press Q to exit.."' SIGINT SIGTERM SIGTSTP
clear
while [ "$CHOICE" != "Q" ] && [ "$CHOICE" != "q" ]; do
echo "MAIN MENU"
echo "1) ONE"
echo "2) TWO"
echo "3) THREE"
echo "Q) Quite"
echo CHOICE
clear
done
Docker-Kubernetes
Kubectl apply
Kubectl apply -f filename.yaml (create/update resources in a file)
Kubectl apply -f myyaml/ (create/update a whole directory of yaml)
Kubectl apply -f https://xxx.xxx/xxx.yml (create/update from a URL)
Curl -L https://xxx.xxx/xxx (look at the yaml file first)

Configuration YAML
YAML or JSON?
YAML is more human readable, in the background, the system converts YAML to JSON.
Each file contains one or more manifests, each manifest describes an API object (deployment, job, secret), each manifest needs four parts (four root key: values in the file)
apiVersion: get the API versions the cluster supports
kubectl api-version
kind: get a list of resources the cluster supports
kubectl api-resources
metadata: only name is required
spec: where all the action is at

exp YAML file:
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
name: nginx
spec:
containers:

- name: nginx
  image: nginx:1.17.3
  ports:
- containerPort: 80

kubectl explain services –recursive (display all the keys each kind supports)
kubectl explain services.spec (ServiceSpec describes the attributes that a user creates on a service)
kubectl explain services.spec (type determines how the Service is exposed. Defaults to ClusterIP. Valid options are ExternalName, ClusterIP, NodePort, and LoadBalancer)

kubectl apply –f app.yml  
vim app.yml (change app.yml)
kubectl diff –f app.yml (use diff to see the changes)

Labels:
Labels are key/value pairs that are attached to objects, such as pods. Labels are intended to be used to specify identifying attributes of objects that are meaningful and relevant to users, but do not directly imply semantics to the core system. Labels can be used to organize and to select subsets of objects. Labels can be attached to objects at creation time and subsequently added and modified at any time. Each object can have a set of key/value labels defined. Each Key must be unique for a given object.
https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/overview/working-with-objects/labels/

Labels goes under metadata in YAML
Simple list of key:value for identifying your resource later by selecting, grouping, or filtering for it
Common examples include tier:frontend, app:api, env:prod, customer:xxx.co

Filter exp:
Kubectl get pods –l app=nginx (only get pods with nginx label)
Kubectl applu –f xx.yaml –l app=nginx ( only apply certain parts of the yaml file)

Label Selectors
Unlike names and UIDs, labels do not provide uniqueness. In general, we expect many objects to carry the same label(s).
Via a label selector, the client/user can identify a set of objects. The label selector is the core grouping primitive in Kubernetes.
The API currently supports two types of selectors: equality-based and set-based. A label selector can be made of multiple requirements which are comma-separated. In the case of multiple requirements, all must be satisfied so the comma separator acts as a logical AND (&&) operator.
https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/overview/working-with-objects/labels/
