# DevOps learning notes

## 10/02/20

## **Ansible**

#### Ansible configuration file

```
/etc/ansible/ansible.cfg
```

controls how Ansible behaviours

```
ansible-config list
```

list all current configs reading lib/constants.py and shows env and config file setting names

#### Ansible inventory file

```
/etc/ansible/hosts
```

Ansible works against multiple managed nodes or “hosts” in your infrastructure at the same time, using a list or group of lists know as inventory. Once your inventory is defined, you use patterns to select the hosts or groups you want Ansible to run against.
(https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/latest/user_guide/intro_inventory.html#inventory-basics-formats-hosts-and-groups)

#### ad-hoc commands

An Ansible ad-hoc command uses the /usr/bin/ansible command-line tool to automate a single task on one or more managed nodes. Ad-hoc commands are quick and easy, but they are not re-usable. So why learn about ad-hoc commands first? Ad-hoc commands demonstrate the simplicity and power of Ansible. The concepts you learn here will port over directly to the playbook language. Before reading and executing these examples, please read How to build your inventory.
(https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/latest/user_guide/intro_adhoc.html#why-use-ad-hoc-commands)

```
\$ ansible [pattern] -m [module] -a "[module options]"
```

exp:

```
ansible -i inv remote -m ping
```

return ping results from nodes under remote group defined in local inv file.

```
ansible -i inv centos -b -m yum -a "name=elinks state=installed"
```

use yum install elinks in nodes under centos group defined in local inv file
`-b = sudo`

```
ansible -i inv centos -b -m yum -a "name=elinks
state=absent"
```

use yum uninstall elinks

#### Modules

Modules (also referred to as “task plugins” or “library plugins”) are discrete units of code that can be used from the command line or in a playbook task. Ansible executes each module, usually on the remote target node, and collects return values.

#### Module index

(https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/latest/modules/modules_by_category.html)

check modules in nodes:

```
man ansible-doc
```

check available ansible modules

```
ansible-doc xxx(module name)
```

check specific module

> Ansible command module vs shell module vs script module:  
> In the most use cases both modules lead to the same goal. Here are the main differences between these modules.  
> • With the Command module the command will be executed without being proceeded through a shell. As a consequence some variables like \$HOME are not available. And also stream operations like <, >, | and & will not work.  
> • The Shell module runs a command through a shell, by default /bin/sh. This can be changed with the option executable. Piping and redirection are here therefor available.  
> • The command module is more secure, because it will not be affected by the user’s environment.  
> • The Script module the given script will be processed through the shell environment on the remote node.

check details of managed nodes

```
ansible -i inv remote -m setup | less
ansible -i inv remote -m setup –a “filter=xxx” (can use wildcard)
```

exp:

```
ansible -i inv remote -m setup –a “filter=_dist_”
```

return distribution information of managed nodes in remote group

```
ansible -i inv remote -m setup --tree facts
```

output results to local file facts
