# DevOps learning notes

## 18/02/20

## **Ansible-Playbooks**

#### Playbooks:

Playbooks are Ansible’s configuration, deployment, and orchestration language. They can describe a policy you want your remote systems to enforce, or a set of steps in a general IT process.

If Ansible modules are the tools in your workshop, playbooks are your instruction manuals, and your inventory of hosts are your raw material.

At a basic level, playbooks can be used to manage configurations of and deployments to remote machines. At a more advanced level, they can sequence multi-tier rollouts involving rolling updates, and can delegate actions to other hosts, interacting with monitoring servers and load balancers along the way.

While there’s a lot of information here, there’s no need to learn everything at once. You can start small and pick up more features over time as you need them.

Playbooks are designed to be human-readable and are developed in a basic text language. There are multiple ways to organize playbooks and the files they include, and we’ll offer up some suggestions on that and making the most out of Ansible.

Exp:

```
- hosts: webservers
  remote_user: root
  tasks:
  - name: test connection
    ping:
    remote_user: yourname
```

Executing A Playbook

```
ansible-playbook playbook.yml -f 10
```

`-K` ask for become password  
`-k` ask for the connect(SSH) password  
`-C` run in check mode(dry run)

Tasks list  
Each play contains a list of tasks. Tasks are executed in order, one at a time, against all machines matched by the host pattern, before moving on to the next task. It is important to understand that, within a play, all hosts are going to get the same task directives. It is the purpose of a play to map a selection of hosts to tasks.

tasks:

```
- name: make sure apache is running
  service:
  name: httpd
  state: started
```
