# DevOps learning notes

## 18/02/20

## **Ansible-Playbooks**

#### Ansible Vault

`Ansible Vault` is a feature of ansible that allows you to keep sensitive data such as passwords or keys in encrypted files, rather than as plaintext in playbooks or roles. These vault files can then be distributed or placed in source control.

A `vault ID` is an identifier for one or more vault secrets; Ansible supports multiple vault passwords.
Vault IDs provide labels to distinguish between individual vault passwords.

To use `vault IDs`, you must provide an ID label of your choosing and a source to obtain its password (either prompt or a file path):

#### Blocks

Blocks allow for logical grouping of tasks and in play error handling. Most of what you can apply to a single task (with the exception of loops) can be applied at the block level, which also makes it much easier to set data or directives common to the tasks. This does not mean the directive affects the block itself, but is inherited by the tasks enclosed by a block. i.e. a when will be applied to the tasks, not the block itself.

#### Blocks error handling

`Blocks` also introduce the ability to handle errors in a way similar to exceptions in most programming languages. Blocks only deal with ‘failed’ status of a task. A bad task definition or an unreachable host are not ‘rescuable’ errors.
Exp:
--- # Error handling example #2

```
- hosts: localhost
  become: yes
  vars:
  target_service: openvpn-client
  tasks:
  - name: Install Software
    block:
    - service:
      name: "{{ target_service }}"
      state: started
      register: service_status
      rescue:
    - debug:
      var: service_status
      always:
    - debug:
      msg: "Tried to ensure service was running"
```

`block` – Group tasks into a “block”  
`rescue` - A special block that is executed when the preceding block fails  
`always` – A special block that is always executed after the preceding

#### Asynchronous Actions and Polling

Time-limited background operations
You can run long-running operations in the background and check their status later. For example, to execute long_running_operation asynchronously in the background, with a timeout of 3600 seconds (-B), and without polling (-P):

Exp:

```
\$ ansible all -B 3600 -P 0 -a "/usr/bin/long_running_operation --do-stuff"
```

Exp2:

```
--- # Async Task Example
- hosts: localhost
  tasks:
  - name: Run sleep.sh
    command: /home/ansible/sleep.sh
    async: 60
    poll: 10
```

ansible will wait for up to 60 sec, poll every 10 sec.
When poll is 0, Ansible will start the task and immediately move on to the next one without waiting for a result.

#### Delegation

If you want to perform a task on one host with reference to other hosts, use the ‘delegate_to’ keyword on a task. This is ideal for placing nodes in a load balanced pool, or removing them. It is also very useful for controlling outage windows. Be aware that it does not make sense to delegate all tasks, debug, add_host, include, etc always get executed on the controller. Using this with the ‘serial’ keyword to control the number of hosts executing at one time is also a good idea:

exp:

```
--- # Delegation Example
- hosts: centos
  tasks:
  - name: Run sleep.sh
    command: /home/ansible/sleep.sh
    async: 60
    poll: 0
    delegate_to: scoldham2c
  - name: Install mariadb
    package:
    name: mariadb
    state: absent
    become: yes
```

task Run sleep.sh will only run on scoldham2c host

`local_action` shorthand syntax for delegating localhost(127.0.0.1)

```
tasks:
 - name: take out of load balancer pool
  local_action: command /usr/bin/take_out_of_pool {{ inventory_hostname }}
```

#### Parallelism

By default, Ansible will try to manage all of the machines referenced in a play in parallel. For a rolling update use case, you can define how many hosts Ansible should manage at a single time by using the serial keyword:

exp:

```
--- # Serial execution Example
- hosts: all
  max_fail_percentage: 1
  serial:
  - 5
  - "30%"
  - "50%"
    become: yes
    tasks:
    - name: Install elinks
      package:
      name: elinks
      state: latest
```

`serial` keyword may be used to control forks(-F) in a playbook. It can be integer or percentage of the total hosts
`max_fail_percentage`: all a certain percentage to fail

#### Roles

`Roles` are ways of automatically loading certain vars_files, tasks, and handlers based on a known file structure. Grouping content by roles also allows easy sharing of roles with other users.

Roles expect files to be in certain directory names. Roles must include at least one of these directories, however it is perfectly fine to exclude any which are not being used. When in use, each directory must contain a main.yml file, which contains the relevant content:

`tasks` - contains the main list of tasks to be executed by the role.  
`handlers` - contains handlers, which may be used by this role or even anywhere outside this role.  
`defaults` - default variables for the role (see Using Variables for more information).  
`vars` - other variables for the role (see Using Variables for more information).  
`files` - contains files which can be deployed via this role.  
`templates` - contains templates which can be deployed via this role.  
`meta` - defines some meta data for this role. See below for more details.

#### Dynamic vs. Static

Ansible has two modes of operation for reusable content: dynamic and static.  
In Ansible 2.0, the concept of dynamic includes was introduced. Due to some limitations with making all includes dynamic in this way, the ability to force includes to be static was introduced in Ansible 2.1. Because the include task became overloaded to encompass both static and dynamic syntaxes, and because the default behavior of an include could change based on other options set on the Task, Ansible 2.4 introduces the concept of include vs. import.  
If you use any `include*` Task (`include_tasks`, `include_role`, etc.), it will be `dynamic`. If you use any `import*` Task (`import_playbook`, `import_tasks`, etc.), it will be `static`.

> How to Use Ansible Roles to Abstract your Infrastructure Environment
> https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/how-to-use-ansible-roles-to-abstract-your-infrastructure-environment
