# DevOps learning notes

## 04/02/20

## **Docker-Kubernetes**

### DaemonSet

A DaemonSet ensures that all (or some) Nodes run a copy of a Pod. As nodes are added to the cluster, Pods are added to them. As nodes are removed from the cluster, those Pods are garbage collected. Deleting a DaemonSet will clean up the Pods it created.
(https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/daemonset/)

### Taints and Tolerations

Node affinity, described here, is a property of pods that attracts them to a set of nodes (either as a preference or a hard requirement). Taints are the opposite – they allow a node to repel a set of pods.
Taints and tolerations work together to ensure that pods are not scheduled onto inappropriate nodes. One or more taints are applied to a node; this marks that the node should not accept any pods that do not tolerate the taints. Tolerations are applied to pods, and allow (but do not require) the pods to schedule onto nodes with matching taints.
(https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/taint-and-toleration/)

`The "mission" of a replica set is`:  
"Make sure that there is the right number of pods matching this spec!"

`The "mission" of a daemon set is`:  
"Make sure that there is a pod matching this spec on each node!"

Add enabled=yes to all pods that have app=rng:

```
kubectl label pods -l app=rng enabled=yes
```

`kubectl label ... foo=` doesn't remove a label (it sets it to an empty string)  
to remove label foo, use `kubectl label ... foo-`
to change an existing label, we would need to add `–overwrite`

the label(s) of a resource (in the metadata block in the beginning)  
the selector of a resource (in the spec block)  
the label(s) of the resource(s) created by the first resource (in the template block)

```
kubectl edit
```

This is equivalent to first get the resource, edit it in text editor, and then apply the resource with the updated version

```
kubectl edit deployment/my-nginx
```

```
kubectl get deployment my-nginx -o yaml > /tmp/nginx.yaml
vi /tmp/nginx.yaml
#do some edit, and then save the file
kubectl apply -f /tmp/nginx.yaml
deployment.apps/my-nginx configured
rm /tmp/nginx.yaml
```

Write YAML file  
Find the resource kind you want to create (api-resources)

Find the latest apiVersion your cluster supports for kind (api-versions)

Give it a name in metadata (minimum)  
Dive into the spec of that kind  
kubectl explain <kind>.spec  
kubectl explain <kind> --recursive
