# DevOps learning notes

## 06/02/20

## **Terraform**

### Terraform commands:

The terraform `init` command is used to initialize a working directory containing Terraform configuration files. This is the first command that should be run after writing a new Terraform configuration or cloning an existing one from version control. It is safe to run this command multiple times.

`taint`: Manually mark a resource for recreation untaint: Manually unmark a resource as tainted

```
terraform taint [NAME]
terraform untaint [NAME]
```

The terraform `taint` command manually marks a Terraform-managed resource as tainted, forcing it to be destroyed and recreated on the next apply.

This command will not modify infrastructure, but does modify the state file in order to mark a resource as tainted. Once a resource is marked as tainted, the next plan will show that the resource will be destroyed and recreated and the next apply will implement this change.

lookup retrieves the value of a single element from a map, given its key. If the given key does not exist, a the given default value is returned instead.

```
lookup(map, key, default)
```

exp:

Download the latest Ghost Image

```
resource "docker_image" "image_id" {
name = lookup(var.image_name, var.env)
}
```

Start the Container

```
resource "docker_container" "container_id" {
name = lookup(var.container_name, var.env)
image = "${docker_image.image_id.latest}"
  ports {
    internal = "${var.int_port}"
external = "lookup(var.ext_port, var.env)
  }
}
```

### Terraform commands:

`workspace`: New, list, select and delete Terraform workspaces  
Workspace subcommands:  
`delete`: Delete a workspace list:  
List Workspaces  
`new`: Create a new workspace  
`select`: Select a workspace  
`show`: Show the name of the current workspace

Switching between different environments (dev, prod…)

```
Workspace default/dev/prod
```

### Provisioners

`Provisioners` can be used to model specific actions on the local machine or on a remote machine in order to prepare servers or other infrastructure objects for service.

`local-exec Provisioner`  
The `local-exec provisioner` invokes a local executable after a resource is created. This invokes a process on the machine running Terraform, not on the resource. See the remote-exec provisioner to run commands on the resource.

`Null Resource`
The null_resource resource implements the standard resource lifecycle but takes no further action.rh

```
Exp:
resource "null_resource" "null_id" {
  provisioner "local-exec" {
  command = "echo ${docker_container.container_id.name}:${docker_container.container_id.ip_address} >> container.txt"
  }
}
```
